# ClassAttendance
## attendance.py
This is mostly a helper file, though it can be run on its own to take the attendance for one class period.
If you would like to run it, type this in the terminal:
```
python3 attendance.py zoomus_meeting_reportXXXXXXXXXXX.csv Attendance.xlsx "102(TTH)" "YYYY-MM-DD"
```
The first argument is the Zoom meeting report in .csv format.
This file is automatically generated for class meetings and comes named as zoomus_meeting_reportXXXXXXXXXXX.csv
by default, where the X's stand for the meeting id.
<br/>
<br/>
The second argument is the attendance Excel spreadsheet.
The format is simple and is shown in ExampleAttendance.xlsx for reference.
The first column includes all of the students on the class roster.
Every column after that represents a class meeting day.
The columns must be labeled in date/time format, as this is how the code identifies which column to modify.
<br/>
<br/>
The third argument is the section, assuming the Attendance.xlsx has one sheet per section of the course.
The sheet name represents the section.
Above, 102(TTH) is the section and also the name of the sheet with that section's attendance information.
<br/>
<br/>
The fourth argument is the date being taken attendance for in YYYY-MM-DD format.
<br/>


## multipleDaysAttendance.py
This file takes care of attendance for multiple days and calls functions from attendance.py.
If you would like to run it, type this in the terminal:
```
python3 multipleDaysAttendance.py Attendance.xlsx "101(MWF)"
```
The first argument is the attendance Excel spreadsheet, again following the format in ExampleAttendance.xlsx.
<br/>
<br/>
The second argument is the section, with the same assumptions as before.
<br/>
<br/>
Another assumption made here is that there exists a directory called "zoom" that contains all of the .csv Zoom report files.
A further constraint exists such that the name of the .csv must be YYYY-MM-DD.csv for the given date of that meeting.
This allows the code to easily line up each .csv file with a date in the Attendance.xlsx file.
<br/>
<br/>
The result of running this file is an updated version of Attendance.xlsx with a 1 in the entry for
a given student and a given date if said student attended the Zoom meeting on said date.
A blank entry indicates an absence.
<br/>


## Other Files Needed
To get the desired result of running multipleDaysAttendance.py, you need:
<br/>
1. A .xlsx file for the attendance formatted according to ExampleAttendance.xlsx with a column for the student names and a column for each of the class dates.
2. A sub directory called "zoom" that contains the .csv Zoom reports named following this pattern: YYYY-MM-DD.csv. Any non .csv files in this directory are ignored.
<br/>
